
Redeem
Upgrade
Help
Sign in

    Dictionaries
    Grammar
    Word Lists
    Resources

English
Enter search text

Definition of rather adverb from the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary
rather adverb
 OPAL WOPAL S
 
/?r????(r)/
 
/?r???r/
Idioms

    ? 
    used to mean ‘fairly’ or ‘to some degree’, often when you are disappointed, surprised or expressing slight criticism
        rather odd/strange/unusual
        a rather large sum of money
        A rather small number of people turned up.
        They took a rather different approach.
        I thought it was a rather good idea.
        The instructions were rather complicated.
        She fell and hurt her leg rather badly.
        I didn't fail the exam; in fact I did rather well!
        It was a rather difficult question.
        It was rather a difficult question.
        He looks rather like his father.
        The patient has responded to the treatment rather better than expected.
        He was conscious that he was talking rather too much.
    Which Word? quite / fairly / rather / pretty
    Extra Examples

    Questions about grammar and vocabulary?

    Find the answers with Practical English Usage online, your indispensable guide to problems in English.
    ?used with a verb to make a statement sound less strong
        I've always rather liked Charlie.
        I rather suspect we're making a mistake.
        We were rather hoping you'd be able to do it by Friday.
    ? 
    used to correct something you have said, or to give more accurate information
        She worked as a secretary, or rather, a personal assistant.
        In the end he had to walk—or rather run—to the office.
    Language Bank i.e.
    ? 
    used to introduce an idea that is different or opposite to the idea that you have stated previously
        The walls were not white, but rather a sort of dirty grey.
        The problem is not in the whole system, but rather in one small part. 
    Word Origin

Idioms
rather than
 

    ?instead of somebody/something
        I think I'll have a cold drink rather than coffee.
        Why didn't you ask for help, rather than trying to do it on your own?

rather you, him, etc. than me

    ?(informal) used for saying that you would not like to do something that another person is going to do
        ‘I'm going climbing tomorrow.’ ‘Rather you than me!’

would rather… (than)
 

    ?(usually reduced to ’d rather) would prefer to
        She'd rather die than give a speech.
        ‘Do you want to come with us?’ ‘No, I'd rather not.’
        Would you rather walk or take the bus?
        ‘Do you mind if I smoke?’ ‘Well, I'd rather you didn't.’
        Personally, I'd rather see the money and resources going into education.
        I'd rather have a simple product that actually works than something fancy that's just not reliable.
    Express Yourself Expressing a preference
    Topics Preferences and decisionsb2 

See rather in the Oxford Advanced American DictionarySee rather in the Oxford Learner's Dictionary of Academic English
Check pronunciation: rather
Other results

All matches

        rather exclamation
        sooner rather than later

Idioms

        sooner rather than later

Nearby words

    the rates noun
    rath noun
    rather adverb
    rather exclamation
    ratification noun

18 July 2022
risky
adjective
 
 
From the Word list
Oxford 5000
B2
Oxford Learner's Dictionaries Word of the Day

Oxford Learner's Dictionaries

    Browse Dictionaries & Grammar
    Search Box
    System Requirements
    Contact Us

More from us

    Oxford Learner's Dictionaries API
    English Language Teaching
    Oxford Teacher's Club
    Oxford Learner's Bookshelf
    Oxford Languages

Who we are

    About Us
    Our history
    Annual report
    The way we work
    Working for OUP

Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide
Oxford University Press

    Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookies Settings Terms & Conditions Accessibility Legal Notice 

    © 2022 Oxford University Press

